---
title: AWS Serverless
date: 2020-08-18 18:25
---
Building blocks. That’s what these are. Actually all of software development is basically building blocks. But with this serverless things it gets a lot easier to do things. Serverless reduces the number of things you need to configure and the number of things you need to worry about a lot. With web development the building blocks used to be big. Now it can be made more smaller. A lambda is small. Most lambda's are written in one page of code. And you can create loads and loads of lambdas in a single project. A lambda is like a controller in a web app. You can create it for mundane things. You put them there and they run. Besides lambdas you have the buckets, the notification services, the search service, the logs thing, also when you need them you can have containers, then there is the API gateway, authentication service. They are all service. You don't need to think of them as processes running, or computers with filesystems. Just like how iOS's photo library revolutioned the way we store photos. Before that we had this folders and folders of things that we need to copy, and open folders to check out. Sure they are all he same thing. They can be made to work like old ways. But this is so much easy. They come at the cost of vendor lock in. Buckets are amazing to thing about. You can create and delete them at will. The change is also like using installed applicatinos and web apps. What you do in a web app you can build a desktop app that insatall. But you lose a lot of convenience. They are not very limiting though. You can also use containers and Kubernetes service. Bucket is like folders not disks. You create them at will. They have most of the useful configuration anyone wants. The thought process is so simple. You want to build a social network, you simple create a SPA to put in CloudFront, have a bucket for photos, and then a lambda that handles new posts, a lambda that creates news feed, and API gatewaoy for the fornt ends, a managed database. They all scale so easily. They cost for the use. You can set a lot of granuality. Lots of configuration options are there